README.md, before:

# FUSION BOARD 

Fusion Board is a front-end, JavaScript-based, comprehensive Recommendation Engine and Dashboarding Tool for Data Visualization. This includes simple and complex charts (like the column and bar chart, pie and doughnut chart, the treemap, heatmap, and logarithmic chart), gauges (like the angular gauge, bulb gauge, and the thermometer gauge) and maps (all continents, major countries, and all US states), with the added capability to visualize data using analytical techniques like time series, etc.

## Version ##
Currently the build system is on the FSB-10 version.

## How do I get set up? ##

The Fusion Board Application has its developer version in the remote repository of FusionCharts in BitBucket. Only members with access can clone the application.
The `package.json` file contains all the dependencies and the configurations for the build.

### Setting up the FusionBoard Developer Application

1. Clone the fusionboard Repo

   `git clone git@bitbucket.org:fusioncharts/fusionboard.git`
   
2. Install all Dependencies

   `npm install`
   
3. Run the application

   `npm run build`
   
### Running Tests

By default the `npm run build` run all tests that ensures that your commit does not break anything in the repository. However, if the tests have to be run explicitly, the `npm test` has to be executed.

### Contribution guidelines ###

The details to contributing to this project has been listed out in the `CONTRIBUTING.md` file present in the root directory.

### Who do I talk to? ###

Repo Owners :

    Akash Goswami       -   akash@fusioncharts.com
    Subash Halder       -   subhash@fusioncharts.com

Other members :
    Ranajit Banerjee    -   ranajit.banerjee@fusioncharts.com
    Sumit Pal           -   sumit@fusioncharts.com
    Mridul Meharia      -   mridul@fusioncharts.com
    Sushrut Shivaswamy  -   sushrut@fusioncharts.com

Commit message:

Changing the naming from fusionboard to datatable

README.md, after:

# DATATABLE 

DataTable is a front-end, JavaScript-based, comprehensive Recommendation Engine and Dashboarding Tool for Data Visualization. This includes simple and complex charts (like the column and bar chart, pie and doughnut chart, the treemap, heatmap, and logarithmic chart), gauges (like the angular gauge, bulb gauge, and the thermometer gauge) and maps (all continents, major countries, and all US states), with the added capability to visualize data using analytical techniques like time series, etc.

## Version ##
Currently the build system is on the FSB-10 version.

## How do I get set up? ##

The Data Table Application has its developer version in the remote repository of FusionCharts in BitBucket. Only members with access can clone the application.
The `package.json` file contains all the dependencies and the configurations for the build.

### Setting up the DataTable Developer Application

1. Clone the datatable Repo

   `git clone git@bitbucket.org:fusioncharts/datatable.git`
   
2. Install all Dependencies

   `npm install`
   
3. Run the application

   `npm run build`
   
### Running Tests

By default the `npm run build` run all tests that ensures that your commit does not break anything in the repository. However, if the tests have to be run explicitly, the `npm test` has to be executed.

### Contribution guidelines ###

The details to contributing to this project has been listed out in the `CONTRIBUTING.md` file present in the root directory.

### Who do I talk to? ###

Repo Owners :

    Akash Goswami       -   akash@fusioncharts.com
    Subash Halder       -   subhash@fusioncharts.com

Other members :
    Ranajit Banerjee    -   ranajit.banerjee@fusioncharts.com
    Sumit Pal           -   sumit@fusioncharts.com
    Mridul Meharia      -   mridul@fusioncharts.com
    Sushrut Shivaswamy  -   sushrut@fusioncharts.com
